README.md, before:

# Block Talk

A made up social Network, to flex my react Skills to everyone!

## Funcionalities

- Register your account!
- Login/Logout
- Profile page with editable content (you may also visit other users, but cant edit their details)
- Follow/Unfollow capabilities, follow who you want to and unfollow if they get too annoying
- Follows Page with a list of those who you are following, and those that are following you! feel free to visit them from there if you want to
- Add a "Block" where you can speak your mind and others can see it!
- Comment on a "Block" and discuss that specific topic!
- A Homepage to see Blocks!
- Sort the Blocks on your Homepage Toggling between global or just from who you are following!

## Practiced Skills

This was by far the most involved project I have ever done... I got to practice many many things... the most interesting of those was... planning! Usually I was doing projects with specifications already laid out... but in this case I built the specifications for it and worked from there! here is a picture of how it looked:

![alt text](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/1029854765934448650/1046261054163910736/IMG_20221126_182828.jpg)

and it progressed from there:
![alt text](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/1029854765934448650/1047226674024038510/rn_image_picker_lib_temp_3f8dbbaf-3a38-4562-beb5-58caca2fb815.jpg)

until it was essentially done:
![alt text](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/1029854765934448650/1048011064979230770/IMG_20221201_200132.jpg)

Something else that I do not usually do, was a mock-up of the design, its really rough, but... I'm not a designer haha!:
![alt text](https://github.com/joaobitu/block-talk/blob/main/finishedMockup.png?raw=true).

A very big deal about this project was also getting the backend to work... this was much more involved than where's waldo application I previously did... and so I got to do many interesting things such as working with authentication!

Overall it was incredibly interesting challenge.

## Technologies

- ![Firebase](https://img.shields.io/badge/Firebase-039BE5?style=for-the-badge&logo=Firebase&logoColor=white)
- ![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/react-%2320232a.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=react&logoColor=%2361DAFB)
- ![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/javascript-%23323330.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=javascript&logoColor=%23F7DF1E)
- ![CSS3](https://img.shields.io/badge/css3-%231572B6.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=css3&logoColor=white)
- ![HTML5](https://img.shields.io/badge/html5-%23E34F26.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=html5&logoColor=white)
- ![Webpack](https://img.shields.io/badge/webpack-%238DD6F9.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=webpack&logoColor=black)
- ![NPM](https://img.shields.io/badge/NPM-%23000000.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=npm&logoColor=white)

## Improvements

A social media application in real life is incredibly complex, and it takes tens of thousands of developers years to build and maintain it... So I had to define a scope that was reasonable within my circumstances... There are however features to improve here that I could eventually do, and those are:

- ~~Making the changes to some elements of the application dynamic, in not needing to refresh to reload the content and pull the data from the backend~~
- ~~Adding the option to delete/edit Blocks (this was left out as I felt like it was something I didnt need further practicing giving I already did this in previous applications)~~
- ~~Adding further barriers to avoid displaying null content (profile page inacessible before being logged in)~~
- Adding a Different Color Scheme Option.

## Links

- [Live version](https://joaobitu.github.io/block-talk/#/)

## Later Patches

- Now comments are displayed without the need to refresh, and you can also delete blocks and comments! A starter page was also added to instruct the user to create an account, and now all modals close upon performaing the intended action for the modal!(10/12/2022)
- Now the Profile Update function also happens without refreshing! I have also added a fun little tutorial to teach the usability for the application! Also improved block sorting button display(11/12/2022)
- Added further barriers to avoid displaying null content, added password validation feedback on registering!(12/12/2022)

Commit message:

removed welcome page from already logged in viewer

README.md, after:

# Block Talk

A made up social Network, to flex my react Skills to everyone!

## Funcionalities

- Register your account!
- Login/Logout
- Profile page with editable content (you may also visit other users, but cant edit their details)
- Follow/Unfollow capabilities, follow who you want to and unfollow if they get too annoying
- Follows Page with a list of those who you are following, and those that are following you! feel free to visit them from there if you want to
- Add a "Block" where you can speak your mind and others can see it!
- Comment on a "Block" and discuss that specific topic!
- A Homepage to see Blocks!
- Sort the Blocks on your Homepage Toggling between global or just from who you are following!

## Practiced Skills

This was by far the most involved project I have ever done... I got to practice many many things... the most interesting of those was... planning! Usually I was doing projects with specifications already laid out... but in this case I built the specifications for it and worked from there! here is a picture of how it looked:

![alt text](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/1029854765934448650/1046261054163910736/IMG_20221126_182828.jpg)

and it progressed from there:
![alt text](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/1029854765934448650/1047226674024038510/rn_image_picker_lib_temp_3f8dbbaf-3a38-4562-beb5-58caca2fb815.jpg)

until it was essentially done:
![alt text](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/1029854765934448650/1048011064979230770/IMG_20221201_200132.jpg)

Something else that I do not usually do, was a mock-up of the design, its really rough, but... I'm not a designer haha!:
![alt text](https://github.com/joaobitu/block-talk/blob/main/finishedMockup.png?raw=true).

A very big deal about this project was also getting the backend to work... this was much more involved than where's waldo application I previously did... and so I got to do many interesting things such as working with authentication!

Overall it was incredibly interesting challenge.

## Technologies

- ![Firebase](https://img.shields.io/badge/Firebase-039BE5?style=for-the-badge&logo=Firebase&logoColor=white)
- ![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/react-%2320232a.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=react&logoColor=%2361DAFB)
- ![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/javascript-%23323330.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=javascript&logoColor=%23F7DF1E)
- ![CSS3](https://img.shields.io/badge/css3-%231572B6.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=css3&logoColor=white)
- ![HTML5](https://img.shields.io/badge/html5-%23E34F26.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=html5&logoColor=white)
- ![Webpack](https://img.shields.io/badge/webpack-%238DD6F9.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=webpack&logoColor=black)
- ![NPM](https://img.shields.io/badge/NPM-%23000000.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=npm&logoColor=white)

## Improvements

A social media application in real life is incredibly complex, and it takes tens of thousands of developers years to build and maintain it... So I had to define a scope that was reasonable within my circumstances... There are however features to improve here that I could eventually do, and those are:

- ~~Making the changes to some elements of the application dynamic, in not needing to refresh to reload the content and pull the data from the backend~~
- ~~Adding the option to delete/edit Blocks (this was left out as I felt like it was something I didnt need further practicing giving I already did this in previous applications)~~
- ~~Adding further barriers to avoid displaying null content (profile page inacessible before being logged in)~~
- Adding a Different Color Scheme Option.

## Links

- [Live version](https://joaobitu.github.io/block-talk/#/)

## Later Patches

- Now comments are displayed without the need to refresh, and you can also delete blocks and comments! A starter page was also added to instruct the user to create an account, and now all modals close upon performaing the intended action for the modal!(10/12/2022)
- Now the Profile Update function also happens without refreshing! I have also added a fun little tutorial to teach the usability for the application! Also improved block sorting button display(11/12/2022)
- Added further barriers to avoid displaying null content, added password validation feedback on registering! Removed Welcome Page from already logged in viewer(12/12/2022)
